Add performance testing best practices (#9463)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _benchmark/user-guide/optimizing-benchmarks/performance-testing-best-practices.md

## Environment setup

Performance testing requires careful attention to the testing environment. A properly configured environment is crucial for obtaining reliable and reproducible results.

When setting up your testing environment, it's essential to use hardware that closely matches your production environment. Using development or under powered hardware will not provide meaningful results that can translate to production performance. Local machines often have limited hardware, and local development libraries can conflict with the workload's library, preventing the Benchmark test from running effectively.

For best results, make sure that your load generation host or machine running OpenSearch Benchmark follows the minimum hardware requirements:

- CPU: 8+ cores
- RAM: 32GB+

> - Storage: SSD/NVMe

Author: ```suggestion
- Storage: Solid-state drive (SSD)/NVMe
```

  --test-procedure=default \
  --report-format=csv \
  --report-file=benchmark-results.csv
```
{% include copy.html %}

### Monitoring during tests

During test execution, it's essential to monitor various system metrics to ensure the test is running correctly and to identify any potential bottlenecks. The following commands help you monitor different aspects of system performance:

```bash
# Monitor system resources
vmstat 1

# Monitor OpenSearch metrics
curl localhost:9200/_cat/nodes?v
curl localhost:9200/_cat/indices?v

# Monitor cluster health
curl localhost:9200/_cluster/health?pretty
```
{% include copy.html %}

## Metrics collection

Collecting and storing appropriate metrics is crucial for analyzing test results and making informed decisions about performance optimizations.

### Essential metrics

Configure your benchmark to collect comprehensive metrics. The following configuration example shows how to set up metrics collection with file storage:

```json
{
  "metrics": {
    "store_metrics": true,
    "detailed": true,
    "metrics_store": {
      "type": "file",
      "location": "/path/to/metrics"
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

### Sample metrics to track

> Here's a comprehensive list of metrics that should be tracked during performance testing. The following Python structure can be used as a template for your metrics collection strategy:

Author: ```suggestion
The following Python structure can be used as a template for your metrics collection strategy and includes a list of metrics that should be tracked during performance testing:
```

## Integration with OpenSearch Dashboards

To integrate OpenSearch Benchmark results with OpenSearch Dashboards, use the following steps:

1. [Configure OpenSearch Benchmark]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/user-guide/install-and-configure/configuring-benchmark/) to store results in OpenSearch.
2. Create index patterns in OpenSearch Dashboards for the benchmark results.
3. Create visualizations and dashboards to analyze the benchmark data.

## Common pitfalls

When conducting performance tests with OpenSearch Benchmark, it's important to be aware of common pitfalls that can lead to inaccurate or misleading results.

### Warmup intervals

Proper warmup is crucial for accurate performance testing. Without an adequate warmup period, your test results may be skewed by initial system instabilities or caching effects.

Don't run tests without a warmup period.

Instead, always include an adequate warmup period in your tests. This allows the system to reach a steady state before measurements begin. The following example gives a `geonames` run a warmup period of `300s`.

```python

> # DO: Include adequate warmup

Author: ```suggestion
```

        'opensearch': '2.0.0',
        'java': 'OpenJDK 11.0.11',
        'benchmark_version': '1.0.0'
    }
    results = opensearch_benchmark.run()
    return {'environment': environment, 'results': results}
```
{% include copy.html %}

By documenting these details, you ensure that your test results can be properly interpreted and that the tests can be reproduced if necessary.

### Troubleshooting with logs

When encountering issues or unexpected results, OpenSearch Benchmark logs can provide valuable insights. Here's how to effectively use logs for troubleshooting:

1. Navigate to the log file: The main log file is typically located at `~/.osb/logs/benchmark.log`.

2. Look for error messages. Search for lines containing "ERROR" or "WARNING" to identify potential issues.

3. Check for performance bottlenecks. Look for entries that indicate slow operations or resource constraints.

4. Review configuration details, such as logs. Logs often include information about the test configuration, which can help verify that your intended settings were applied correctly.

5. Pay attention to the duration of different phases of the benchmark, including warmup and measurement periods.

> By carefully reviewing these logs, you can often identify the root cause of performance issues or unexpected benchmark results.

Author: ```suggestion
By carefully reviewing these logs, you can often identify the root cause of performance issues or unexpected benchmark results. If you encounter a log error that you do not recognize, submit an issue to the [OpenSearch Benchmark repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark). 
```

## Security considerations

In most cases, a basic authentication protocol should work for testing. However, you can use SSL for secure communication during benchmark testing, as shown in the following example `opensearch.yml` configuration:

```yaml
security:
  ssl: true
  verification_mode: full
  certificate_authorities:
    - /path/to/ca.crt
  client_certificate: /path/to/client.crt
  client_key: /path/to/client.key
```
{% include copy.html %}

## Maintenance

Regular maintenance of your benchmark environment and tools is essential for consistent and reliable testing over time.

Keep your benchmark tools and workloads up to date with the following commands:

```bash
# Update OpenSearch Benchmark
pip install --upgrade opensearch-benchmark

# Update workloads
opensearch-benchmark update-workload geonames

# Clean old data
opensearch-benchmark clean
```
{% include copy.html %}

## Amazon OpenSearch Serverless considerations

> When testing with Amazon OpenSearch Serverless, be aware that not all test procedures may be supported. Always check the README of the workload you're using to see if it's compatible with AOSS. If compatibility information is not provided, you may need to test the procedures individually to determine which ones are supported.

Author: ```suggestion
When testing with Amazon OpenSearch Serverless, be aware that not all test procedures may be supported. Always check the `README.md` of the [workload](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads) you're using to see if it's compatible with AOSS. If compatibility information is not provided, you may need to test the procedures individually to determine which ones are supported.
```

---
layout: default
title: Performance testing best practices
nav_order: 160
parent: Optimizing benchmarks
grand_parent: User guide
---

# Performance testing best practices for OpenSearch Benchmark

When conducting performance testing with OpenSearch Benchmark, it's crucial to follow best practices to ensure accurate, reliable, and meaningful results. These practices help in creating realistic test scenarios, minimizing external factors that could skew results, and generating comparable and reproducible benchmarks. By adhering to these guidelines, you can gain valuable insights into your cluster's performance, including identifying bottlenecks and making informed decisions about cluster configuration and optimization.

## Environment setup

Performance testing requires careful attention to the testing environment. A properly configured environment is crucial for obtaining reliable and reproducible results.

When setting up your testing environment, it's essential to use hardware that closely matches your production environment. Using development or underpowered hardware will not provide meaningful results that can translate to production performance.

> For best results, make sure that your cluster or test machine fulfills the following recommended minimum requirements:

Author: ```suggestion
For best results, make sure that your load generation host or machine running OpenSearch Benchmark:
```

- CPU: 8+ cores
- RAM: 32GB+
- Storage: SSD/NVMe
- Network: 10Gbps

> It's recommended to provision a test cluster and configure its settings to reflect what you are most likely to deploy in production. Local machines often have limited hardware, and local development libraries can conflict with the workload's library, preventing the Benchmark test from running effectively.

Author: ```suggestion
It's recommended to provision a test cluster and configure its settings to reflect what you are most likely to deploy in production.
```

## Test configuration

Proper test configuration includes setting appropriate parameters for your test scenarios and ensuring your cluster is configured optimally.

### Basic setup

> The following example shows a basic benchmark configuration file. This configuration includes essential parameters such as warmup time, test duration, and the number of clients:

Author: Modify Ian's example to use Term query.

```json
{
  "name": "my-benchmark",
  "description": "Basic performance test",
  "test_procedures": [
    {
      "operation": {
        "warmup-time-period": 300,
        "time-period": 3600,
        "clients": 8
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> ### Cluster settings

Author: ```suggestion
### Index settings
```

> Your OpenSearch cluster settings should be optimized for your specific use case, such as the following index settings:

Author: ```suggestion
Your OpenSearch index settings should be optimized for your specific use case. Try and set the number of shards per index to match your production cluster. However, if you're developer who wants to focus on a single shard's performance and limit the variables impacting performance, use a single primary shard, as shown in the following example `index_settings`: 
```

```json
{
  "index_settings": {

>     "number_of_shards": 3,

Author: ```suggestion
    "number_of_shards": 1,
```

>     "number_of_replicas": 1,

Author: ```suggestion
    "number_of_replicas": 0,
```

    "refresh_interval": "30s"
  }
}
```

These settings offer ample storage space for your documents and test results with 3 shards and 1 replica per index.

## Running tests

> Running benchmark tests involves not just running the benchmark but also monitoring the system during the test and ensuring consistent conditions across test runs.

Author: ```suggestion
Running benchmark tests involves monitoring the system during the test and ensuring consistent conditions across test runs.
```

> While you can run a basic test, you can customize your test run with additional Benchmark command options. The following example runs a `geonames` workload test that targets a specific host, and outputs the test results as a `csv`:

Reviewer: It also might be nice to include a link to where users can find more information about the additional command options! https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/benchmark/reference/commands/index/

```bash
opensearch-benchmark run \
  --workload=geonames \
  --target-hosts=localhost:9200 \
  --pipeline=benchmark-only \
  --test-procedure=default \
  --report-format=csv \
  --report-file=benchmark-results.csv
```

### Monitoring during tests

During test execution, it's essential to monitor various system metrics to ensure the test is running correctly and to identify any potential bottlenecks. The following commands help you monitor different aspects of system performance:

```bash
# Monitor system resources
vmstat 1

# Monitor OpenSearch metrics

> curl localhost:9200/_cat/nodes?v

Author: ```suggestion
curl localhost:9200/_cat/nodes?v
curl localhost:9200/_cat/indices?v
```

```json
{
  "metrics": {
    "store_metrics": true,
    "detailed": true,
    "metrics_store": {
      "type": "file",
      "location": "/path/to/metrics"
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample metrics to track

Here's a comprehensive list of metrics that should be tracked during performance testing. The following Python structure can be used as a template for your metrics collection strategy:

```python
metrics_to_track = {
    'latency': {
        'mean': 'ms',
        'median': 'ms',
        'p95': 'ms',
        'p99': 'ms'
    },
    'throughput': {
        'ops/sec': 'count',
        'mb/sec': 'bytes'
    },
    'system': {
        'cpu_usage': '%',
        'memory_used': 'bytes',
        'disk_io': 'iops'
    }
}
```

### Metrics calculation

OpenSearch Benchmark calculates metrics differently from traditional client-server systems. For detailed information on how metrics are calculated, see [Differences between OpenSearch Benchmark and a traditional client server system](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/benchmark/user-guide/concepts/#differences-between-opensearch-benchmark-and-a-traditional-client-server-system).

## Integration with OpenSearch Dashboards

> To integrate OpenSearch Benchmark results with OpenSearch Dashboards, you can perform one of the following:

Reviewer: Do you mean 'perform the following' instead of 'one of the following'?

> 1. Configure OpenSearch Benchmark to store results in OpenSearch.

Reviewer 2: Could you link the configuration section as well?

2. Create index patterns in OpenSearch Dashboards for the benchmark results.
3. Create visualizations and dashboards to analyze the benchmark data.

## Common pitfalls

When conducting performance tests with OpenSearch Benchmark, it's important to be aware of common pitfalls that can lead to inaccurate or misleading results.

### Warmup intervals

Proper warmup is crucial for accurate performance testing. Without an adequate warmup period, your test results may be skewed by initial system instabilities or caching effects.

> Don't run tests without a warmup period

Reviewer 2: warmup period. <- missing period

Instead, always include an adequate warmup period in your tests. This allows the system to reach a steady state before measurements begin. The following example gives a `geonames` run a warmup period of `300s`.

```python
# DO: Include adequate warmup

> opensearch-benchmark run --workload=geonames --warmup-time-period=300

Reviewer 2: We can revise the command to look like this:
```
opensearch-benchmark run --workload=geonames --workload-params="warmup_time_period:300"
```

Optionally, we can also include a blurb of the configurable warmup test procedure from geonames. No need if it complicates the read experience
```
# Example of task with configurable parameters 
        {
          "operation": "term",
          "warmup-time-period": {{ term_warmup_time_period or warmup_time_period | default(500) | tojson }},
          "time-period": {{ term_time_period or time_period | default(1000) | tojson }},
        },
```

> opensearch-benchmark run --workload=geonames --warmup-time-period=300

Author: ```suggestion
opensearch-benchmark run --workload=geonames --workload-params="warmup_time_period:300"
```

```

The appropriate warmup time can vary depending on your specific workload and system configuration. Start with at least 5 minutes (300 seconds) and adjust as needed based on your observations.

### Compare results from different environments

One of the most common mistakes in performance testing is comparing results from different environments. Results obtained from a laptop or development machine are not comparable to those from a production server due to differences in hardware, network conditions, and other environmental factors.

> Instead, make that all comparisons are made within the same or identical environments. If you need to compare different configurations, make sure to change only one variable at a time while keeping the environment consistent.

Reviewer 2: make that all -> ensure that all

> Instead, make that all comparisons are made within the same or identical environments. If you need to compare different configurations, make sure to change only one variable at a time while keeping the environment consistent.

Author: ```suggestion
Instead, make sure that all comparisons are made within the same or identical environments. If you need to compare different configurations, make sure to change only one variable at a time while keeping the environment consistent.
```

### Document environment details

Proper documentation of your test environment is crucial for reproducibility and accurate analysis. Without detailed environment information, it becomes difficult to interpret results or reproduce tests in the future.

Don't omit environment details from your test reports:

Instead, always document comprehensive details about your test environment. This should include hardware specifications, software versions, and any relevant configuration settings. as shown in the following example:

> 

Reviewer 2: Is this an example of using opensearch-benchmark in a script? If so, we can improve this and also mention that this example is from a user who is using opensearch-benchmark in a script to easily reproduce runs.

```python
# DO: Document environment details
def run_benchmark():
    environment = {
        'hardware': 'AWS m5.2xlarge',
        'os': 'Ubuntu 20.04',
        'kernel': '5.4.0-1018-aws',
        'opensearch': '2.0.0',
        'java': 'OpenJDK 11.0.11',
        'benchmark_version': '1.0.0'
    }
    results = opensearch_benchmark.run()
    return {'environment': environment, 'results': results}
```

By documenting these details, you ensure that your test results can be properly interpreted and that the tests can be reproduced if necessary.

### Troubleshooting with logs

When encountering issues or unexpected results, OpenSearch Benchmark logs can provide valuable insights. Here's how to effectively use logs for troubleshooting:

> 1. Navigate to the log file: The main log file is typically located at `~/.benchmark/logs/benchmark.log`.

Reviewer: This may have to be changed to ~/.osb/logs/benchmark.log due to https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark/pull/732

2. Look for error messages. Search for lines containing "ERROR" or "WARNING" to identify potential issues.

3. Check for performance bottlenecks. Look for entries that indicate slow operations or resource constraints.

4. Review configuration details, such as logs. Logs often include information about the test configuration, which can help verify that your intended settings were applied correctly.

5. Pay attention to the duration of different phases of the benchmark, including warmup and measurement periods.

By carefully reviewing these logs, you can often identify the root cause of performance issues or unexpected benchmark results.

> 

Reviewer 2: Would also add a small sentence suggesting if users encounter unclear log errors, they should open up an issue in the OSB repository

## Security considerations

Security should never be an afterthought in performance testing. It's important to include security configurations that match your production environment to get realistic performance measurements.

### SSL configuration

> Here's an example of how to configure SSL for secure communications during benchmark testing:

Reviewer 2: Should this be done in `opensearch.yml`?

> Here's an example of how to configure SSL for secure communications during benchmark testing:

Author: ```suggestion
The following example of how to configure SSL in `opensearch.yml` for secure communications during benchmark testing:
```

```yaml
security:
  ssl: true
  verification_mode: full
  certificate_authorities:
    - /path/to/ca.crt
  client_certificate: /path/to/client.crt
  client_key: /path/to/client.key
```

### Authentication setup

> When testing with authentication enabled, ensure your benchmark includes the appropriate authentication headers:

Reviewer 2: Where should the users have this?

Author: Remove this section and encourage users to use basic auth. For AWS users, point to their documentation.
